== Welcome ==

Welcome to the Ontobuilder Research Environment Wiki. 
The Ontobuilder Research Environment (ORE) is designed to provide students and researchers in schema matching and related fields a jump-start in designing and running experiments. 
Development of ORE is managed by [[https://sites.google.com/view/roee-shraga|Roee Shraga]], Phd. student at [[http://www.technion.ac.il|Technion IIT]] under the academic guidance of [[http://ie.technion.ac.il/~avigal|Avigdor Gal]], Phd.\\ To report bugs, request assistance or suggest additional features, contact Roee by email: shraga89@gmail.com.
\\Wiki purposes:
* Keep track of the different experiments available through the Ontobuilder Research Environment by supplying researchers with a platform and standard format for documenting their experiments. 
* Provide basic guidance in the usage and development of the Research Environment for students and researchers at [[http://www.technion.ac.il|Technion IIT]]. 


[[Installation|Installation]]

[[Usage|Usage]]

[[MatchingSystems|Matching Systems]]

[[Datasets|Datasets]]

[[Statistics|Statistics]]

[[Experiments|Experiments]]

[[https://bitbucket.org/tomers77/ontobuilder-research-environment/wiki/SimpleMatch|Best Results of ORE to Date]]

=== Terms you should know ===
* **SPID** - Schema Pair ID - Schema pair has path to its exact match file and each schemata has a path to its schema file.
* **DSID** - Dataset ID - Dataset is a collection of schema pairs with the same data structure ergo which we can use the same importer for it.
* **Domains** - Business domains (e.g. hotels, rental cars, betting, etc.) . Each schema pair and schema are assigned to one of these domains. For example: Ontobuilder web form dataset has 150 pairs from 25 domains like airfare, hotels, online gambling, etc.
* **First Line Matcher / Similarity Measure** - An algorithm which matches 2 schemas (Ontology object) returning a similarity matrix repersenting the correspondences between their attributes (MatchInformation object)
* **Second Line Matcher (Called 'matcher' in the mySQL db)** - An algorithm which performs some selection rule or other operation over a similarity matrix returning another similarity matrix (MatchInformation object) as a result




=== Types of experiments ===
The ORE provides the opportunity to run two kinds of experiments:
* **Pair Experiment** - the experiment is run over a list of schema pairs. 
* **Holistic Experiment** - the experiment is run over a group of schemas.

Note that ORE will check if the experiment, requested by command line, is a Holistic Experiment and if so will load random or named SCHEMA IDs (instead of loading random or named schema-PAIR IDs).


=== Additions ===
* **[[https://bitbucket.org/tomers77/ontobuilder-research-environment/wiki/NewFLM|Create a new First Line Matcher]]**
* ** [[https://bitbucket.org/tomers77/ontobuilder-research-environment/wiki/How%20to%20create%20a%20new%20Experiment|Create a new Experiment]]**
\\\\[[Contributors|Contributors]]