An experiment is composed of the following Classes:
* **Experiment Runner**: Contains a collection of Experiment Schema Pairs, a documenter, a Collection of comparison matcher
* **Experiment Schema Pair**: An atom of an experiment collection. Includes a schema pair in ontobuilder objects, database Information of the schema pair (schema pair ID, ontology IDs) and methods for calculating similarity matrices. 
* **Experiment Documenter**: In charge of documenting the information created by the experiment for later analysis
* **Matching Experiment**: This interface should be implemented to perform the experiment taking an experiment schema pair and return in a collection of [[https://github.com/shraga89/Ontobuilder-Research-Environment/blob/master/wiki/Statistics.md|Statistics]].  


The ORE provides the opportunity to run two kinds of experiments:  

* **Pair Experiment** - the experiment is run over a list of schema pairs.  
* **Holistic Experiment** - the experiment is run over a group of schemas.  

Note that ORE will check if the experiment, requested by command line, is a Holistic Experiment and if so will load random or named SCHEMA IDs (instead of loading random or named schema-PAIR IDs).  





  
Running an experiment through Eclipse:

click on the "Run" option and choose "Run Configurations".  
Go to the "Arguments" window and enter to the "Program arguments" box your relevant arguments separated by space. Click "Run" and wait for the experiment to finish.  

**[[https://github.com/shraga89/Ontobuilder-Research-Environment/blob/master/wiki/cmd.md|cmd]]

**[[https://github.com/shraga89/Ontobuilder-Research-Environment/blob/master/wiki/console.md|console]]  

Running an experiment through the server:

Connect to the server and then open the "oer" directory with the commend "cd oer".  
Enter "java -jar ORE.jar" and then the arguments listed above. Insted of an output path enter "./res" and after the running is finished pull the results to your user with the command "scp -r (the path where the results are now) ."  

For example: java -jar ORE.jar cmd ./res SimpleMatch 0 35 0 -f:0,1,2,3 -s:1,3
